( Applause )
>> My name is Mark Whitmore.
I'm the Engineering Manager for Apple Remote Desktop.
And this is session is on extending Apple
Remote Desktop for large scale deployments.
This is what we're going to go over today.
I know some of you are probably actually new to
Apple Remote Desktop so I'm going to talk a little bit
about where we are right now with
the Remote Desktop 3.1 update.
Some of the things that we've got coming for Leopard.
And also we've got a lot of feedback from folks
about things that they would like to see extended
in Remote Desktop especially for large scale deployment.
So we've got several things that we've
tried to do to extend the product.
Just as it is today to help meet some of those needs.
So let's talk about 3.1.
So that came out in November of 2006, last yea r.
And some of the things that we added are a Bonjour
scanner to make it a little bit easier to find machines
on local network, make it a little more reliable.
Lights out management support for those Xserves
that you could now power on remotely.
Restart notifications after package install
so you're clients out there won't be surprised
when they're machine restarts after you do your install.
Yeah, that's, that's good.
And also some more Smart List comparators so you can not
only do a match to see when a criteria does match in order
to create a smart list but also
when something doesn't match.
So 3.2, we're working on this
just like we do with every OS release.
We match a compatibility update for Remote Desktop.
This is going to be a free update that's
going to ship the same time as Leopard.
And just like we did with Tiger where we
put the version 1 of the client in the OS,
we're going to put version 3  - version 3 is
going to come with Leopard automatically.
And one of the things that we're adding to one of the
additions to the client is going to be an adaptive quality,
screen sharing codec and this is primarily for low band
width connections so that you get much better response
when you're just moving windows and things.
It'll be, the image will be low resolution as you're
moving things, but you'll get immediate response.
And then as soon as you stop moving things, it,
the image fills in and sharpens and looks nice.
So this is all going to be available in
October 2007 when we release Leopard.
Oh, also I should mention the, the screen
sharing technology is also going to be
in a separate screen sharing app that's going to ship
with Leopard and you can fire this up either by looking
on the sidebar under the shared section in the finder.
You'll see the, where the machines listed there.
You can select one and they'll be for all the machines that
have the screen sharing service turned on, you can select
and just do a screen sharing, so to set basic
functionality remote desk top that a lot
of people like and that can be built in Leopard.
And also the iChat screen sharing feature,
that's also Remote Desktop under the hood.
Okay, so again for those of you
who are new to Remote Desktop,
I just want to go over the terminology just a
little bit so you're, so you understand where I'm
at when I'm talking about various things.
First thing is the clients.
These are the machines that you've
got out there that you're managing.
Then the administrator console, this is the machine
that you're going to run remote desktop dot app on.
And add all your clients to computer lists
in there and perform actions on them.
And the test server, the source of some confusion for
some folks is a separate, it's basically the same software
that runs on the client, but it serves as a process to take
some of the task execution of the shoulders of the remote,
of the remote desktop dot app running
on the administrator console.
And the client that it works with
right now is install package.
So you can delegate the install
package task to the task server machine
which is another license copy of Remote Desktop.
But you don't need to have the admin running on
it, you don't have to have it on the computer list.
You just run the admin once, set up a serial number,
indicate this machine is going to be remote task server,
and then point your administrator console in
the preferences to use this other machine.
And now you can use that when you
want to do a delegated package install.
And the administrator console can then go
offline and the other advantages of that,
the clients can be offline when you set up this task.
So whenever they come online, they'll
connect in, check in with the task server
and see if there is a package they need to install.
The other thing that a remote task server does is
that when clients build report caches,
they upload it to that task server.
So if it's on all the time, you have a much higher chance
of getting those report caches collected so that later
on when you run the administrator console,
you could run your reports against it
and you'll have all your report data there.
The other thing it's good for too is for
tracking machines whose IP addresses change.
So if you have a lot of clients on DHCP and they're
moving around a lot, every time they get on the network,
they report to the task server and
tell it what its new address is.
So when the administrator console launches, it
checks in with the task server and says, oh, okay,
all these machines changed their IP
addresses, here are the new IP addresses.
If you ever get machines that aren't online anymore, you
gotta scan for them again or their IP address go to 0 0 0,
then if you use a task server, you've a much
less likely chance of that ever happening.
Because that's going to keep track of
where your clients are moving to.
Okay, here's how everything ties together.
The administrator console can send
commands directly to the client.
It also receives status back from the client
and task progress back from the client.
it also communicates with the task server when its
going to delegate a task to it or if its running report,
it communicates with the task server and gets the report
results and then clients communicate with the task server
when they're building their report caches
and sending them up to the task server.
Or if the task server is going to do
install packages against the clients.
Okay, so when I talk about all the features of remote
desktop, I like to break it down to be six different areas
of software distribution, asset management, remote
administration, remote assistance, automation and set up.
And we're going to go through each one
of these things and talk about a way
in which we've extended this for a larger scale deployment.
So we're going to start off with software distribution.
And the first thing I want to do is just
briefly go over what some of the aspects
of software distribution are in remote desktop.
First you have package install from
installing end packages on the machines.
Then you have file copy for copying files and
folders out to any location on the hard disk.
We also have some preset locations like
a user's desktop folder or fonts folder.
You can delete files, you can run reports like
file search reports or spotlight search report
and select the files in there and perform a delete.
And auto install, that's the feature that I talked
about where you can delegate a package
install to a task server machine.
And when they wrote this in 3.1, we made some
significant performance enhancement for file copies.
Its actually 11 times faster then previous, then version 2.
So Doug is going to do a brief demo here of, of just how you
use the task server of a delegated installer right now.
He's going to have one machine that's offline, its
sleeping right now and one machine that's online.
He's going to perform the package install against it.
It will complete on the first machine.
When he wakes up the second one, it'll
contact the task server in a few moments and,
and the package installer will initiate on that one.
>> So you can see my machine called
Downing is offline and Abby is online.
I'm going to do an install.
Select a package that's on my desktop.
It's a QuickTime security update.
( Period of silence )
I'm going to use the task server on this computer.
When I run the install, you'll see that on
Abby it starts up right away and on Downing,
its not doing anything because its offline.
So what I'm going to do is wake up Downing that's
sleeping right now, you can see it over there.
The screen is off.
( Period of silence )
And I'm going to wake it up.
And as soon as it wakes up you'll
see that this will start to go.
( Period of silence )
How we doing over there?
>> Yeah that machine wake up.
>> Is it waking up?
( Laughter )
Hello?
( Whistling )
( Laughter )
( Period of silence )
Is it awake?
>> No.
( Laughter )
>> Oh you know what?
I might have actually shut it down instead of.
>> Oh.
>> So we're going to have to bring that one online.
( Laughter )
( Applause )
Did you start it up?
Yeah, I think I shut it down.
I mean to do sleep, you know.
So I might want to point out that there's two options.
You got a shut down and you got a sleep.
>> I don't have one of these.
Where's the power button on one of these?
I don't have one of these.
( Laughter )
>> Oh yeah.
>> Is there power on too?
>> Oh, there is goes.
I'd also like to point out, there's a
power on, could be helpful at this point.
( Period of silence )
So this handles the offline situation.
Whether it's asleep or powered off.
( Period of silence )
>> This is much better when it happens quickly.
This is somewhat anticlimactic with this long.
( Laughter )
>> There we go.
>> Okay there we go.
So its.
( Applause )
>> Thank you.
>> Something similar happened to me
last time I demoed this too last year.
Like okay, great.
So if we can go back to the presenter
machine here, go back to the slides.
( Period of silence )
Thank you.
So this is, this is basically the
scenario that we just had right here.
You have your administrator machine, in
this case, in this particular example,
the administrator machine is using its
own local task server, not a remote one.
And it delegates those packages to
that and it installs it on the clients.
But let's say you have a lot of, a lot of
machines or a lot of geographic locations
and you want to have multiple task servers.
You want to be able to distribute the installation
of those packages to all those other task servers
because it's inefficient use of your bandwidth so you
don't have a very fat pipe to of your other locations.
Here's an example of what it is we want
to, this is what we actually want to achieve.
We want to have one top level administrator
who's going to be able to delegate
copy that package out to these other administrators in these
other locations like London, Tokyo, and our example here.
And those machines take care of
installing the packages onto the client.
So you don't have to do this package install from the
top level administrator to all those other clients directly.
And I'm going to use the term delegation servers in this
example here instead of task servers and what I'm talking
about in this case is actually another machine
that is running a copy of remote desktop dot app
because as you'll see in a minute, how we're going to do
this is actually going to require the actual admin running
on each of those delegation servers.
( Period of silence )
Okay. So how do we do this?
We're going to use Automator to get those packages from the
top level administrator to each of the delegation servers
which are just other machines that have a
copy of the remote desktop running on it.
So lets quickly go over this script here as to
how we're going to get those packages distributed
to those other machines.
So first we've got just a little UNIX shell script that
when we, this is going to be a drag and drop Automator action.
So you can just drag a package onto
this Automator action and it'll go ahead
and install it out to those other machines.
So the first thing we do is we take that package
name and we stuff it inside of a temp file.
And we echo the name of that package
to our next ARD copy items action.
This is  going to take that package and it's going to use
your local copy remote desktop at the top level machine
and perform this Automator action to copy
that package out to our delegation servers.
And in this case, what we have is
a list called delegation servers.
And that's where our other, that's the list containing the
name of the machines that we want to copy the package out to.
( Period of silence )
Okay, step three then is we actually need to copy that
little temp file itself out to all those other machines
so that they can read it in later with an AppleScript and
figure out which package it is they're supposed to install.
( Period of silence )
And so then the next item, okay so the next
item is, is to actually copy that temp file out.
So that's the next copy items action.
So now we've got the package in this little
temp file that contains the name of the package
on all of, on all of our delegation servers.
( Period of silence )
Okay, second to last step is the AppleScript
that's going to tell each of these machines
to perform the delegated package install
using their own local task servers.
So that's going to get each of those sub
delegation servers performing package install.
And lastly, we just clean up those temp files.
( Period of silence )
So that's fine for getting the packages
down and getting the install started.
But what we really want is to get all that task progress.
Because right now, those package installers
are occurring on those delegation servers
and that's who can see the task progress.
Not the top level machine.
So the question is how do we deal with this?
And to do that we wrote and application which
we're going to introduce today and make available
through the remote desktop website shortly.
We're going to actually make not just the application, but
also the source code available too, so you'll be able
to take this, tweak to however you want, customize
it, probably do some other interesting things
that we haven't thought of or didn't have time to do today.
So the application is called Remote Desktop
Assistant and in the case of the package install,
we also have a process called task monitor agent.
So let's just take a look at the interface for this.
So this Remote Desktop Assistant is going to display
an entry for each of those delegation servers.
And it's going to display the tasks
that are running under each of those.
So in this case we've got a distributed package
install and it gives you the data point ramp.
It also gives you a little icon
to indicate success or failure.
And if you select that task you get on
the bottom table, the list of the machines
that were part of that task as well as their status.
So this is, this is a task status that's coming
from a different remote desktop administrator that's being
shuttled back up to your machine or to some other machine.
( Period of silence )
So this is an overview of how all the communication works.
So we have the task monitor agent
process that you install and run.
We're going to document all these stuff so you
know exactly how to get this stuff installed.
And we're going to, Doug's also going to kinda
demo this too so you can see how this goes.
We have the task monitor agent that gets
installed on each of the delegation machines.
And as the, as the package is getting installed
and the cache project is going up there,
that process monitors for changes in the preference
list, the P list files for remote desktop dot app
and also for the task server that's running on it.
It pulls that out and sends that
up to the top level administrator.
And the Remote Desktop Assistant which is
running up there is also monitoring for changes
that are coming from those other machines.
Then it puts it up in the UI.
( Period of silence )
So here's how we get things started.
We want to transfer everything securely, so we're
going to set up an SSH connection between each
of our delegation servers and our top level administrator.
In this case we're probably at San Francisco.
And we have a little register admin application
that goes ahead and sets up this SSH P pair
so that you can have an automatic SSH
connection between all these machines.
( Period of silence )
So I'm going to hand it over to Doug again and he's going to
go do a demonstration of how all this stuff works.
>> Right. So the first thing I'm going to show
you is how to configure the registration app
to tell your delegation server that it
needs to talk back to your top level server
which in this case is this little laptop I'm running on.
So you can see I have a list called delegation servers, and,
which is important because the Automator
workflow references this list name.
And you can change that in Automator
workflow whenever you want.
So I'm going to copy a, the registration app.
( Period of silence )
Over to one of my delegation servers.
Let's see.
( Period of silence )
Have it open when it copies.
I'm going to take control of this and now what I'm
going to do is enter the information to point back
to my top level admin which like I said is my laptop.
So the host name is San Francisco.
( Period of silence )
Registered.
Now I'm going to, I've already configured my
other delegation servers, so I bore you with that.
And now what I'm going to do is drag that same
QuickTime package onto the workflow drop box.
And, oh shoot, I was supposed to start this up first.
( Period of silence )
There we go.
So now you can see the task progress
on each one of those servers.
So it's idle on this one.
It's idle on this one.
And in a moment you'll start to see it install.
( Period of silence )
Mac minis are a little bit slow.
So that one is done.
Let's see if this one is finished.
And that one is finished.
That's it.
( Applause )
>> Okay, let's go back to the slides.
( Period of silence )
Okay so there you saw an example of how we're able to
distribute that package out to those other machines
and each of those took care of installing
it and set that progress and we're able
to monitor it using the remote desktop assistant.
So lets move on to asset management.
With asset management, we have with Remote Desktop
the ability to run reports, which I talked about earlier.
Those reports get stored in an SQL database
which you can access remotely or locally.
We also have a remote Spotlight search.
You can search across any number of machines, you know
using the Spotlight interface which you're familiar with.
We've got hardware reports and user
history reports, application reports.
And you can do all this stuff if you built up the cache
and get it uploaded or if your clients build up the cache
and they upload it to your task servers, you can
do all this while the machines are offline as well.
( Period of silence )
So Doug's going to do a quick demo of just
reporting so you can see how it works right now.
>> So this is regular reporting.
I'm going to select my delegation servers
and just run a quick report on them.
There you go.
>> Okay. So very simple, just select a bunch
of machines, run your report, get the results.
So I'm going to go back to the slides for a moment.
( Period of silence )
So again, just like the case of installing the package,
each of these machines is kind of in their own little silo.
They, the administrator only works against
one task server and all the clients,
you know any reporting they want to do is
only going to come from that one task server.
Let's say you've got lots of task servers out there
and lots of clients sending their
report results up to those task servers.
And what you would rather have is something like this.
Where you've got one top level task
server, bunch of other sub task servers
where clients are sending their report caches up to.
And you want to take that report data and bring it up to one
top level administrator and have that administrator be able
to run reports against there against all those clients.
You can imagine in a school district situation
where they might have something like this
where each school has a task server that's getting report
results and then you a top level administrator office
which is going to pull all those from
each of those task servers.
So here's, here's how we do this.
on, in the case where you want to actually just sort
of pull the, the report data from each of your sub,
your other task servers, we have a PHP script that's going
to run and using the post SQL command its going to connect
over the network to each of the other
machines and pull out the report data
and merge that into the top level task servers database.
Now that would be fine but lets say your top level
administrator isn't going to have all those other clients
in it, or you know each of the schools is taking
machines away and they're adding new machines and,
you know it'd be too much of a burden to expect the
top level administrator to keep their list in sync
with all the other changes going
on in all the other locations.
So we've got another script that's going to run and
look at the database and create computer entries
in your remote desktop computer
database for any new machines
that got added as a result of running these reports.
So if we run a report and there's five new machines
at another elementary school, we run this script,
a computer entry is going to be added
to that top level remote desktop app.
And you know the very least get reporting access to those.
You won't have credentials, but you'll
be able to run reports against it.
So Doug's going to do a demo, showing us how that works.
>> Alright, so here's my, those delegation servers.
Those are going to be my report caches also.
And this one is using PHP script so it doesn't look quite
as nice, but these are also available, will be available.
So the first script I'm going to run is called aggregate.
And what that's going to do is grab all the
caches from my delegation servers and bring them
up to the task server running on my laptop right here.
>> And there's, you have configuration file right?
>> Yeah, there's a configuration file that
defines all the servers to connect to.
It's called config dot PHP.
So you can see it's processed my three
task servers, Tokyo, London and LA.
And but I still don't have the
computers in my all computer list.
So what I need to do is run another
scripts called add computers.
And now if you have a remote task
server, I need to point out one thing.
The aggregate script runs on the remote task server,
but the add computer script runs on the machine
that you're running the admin client from.
So I'm doing both on the same machine.
When I run add computers, I get an error right there
that tells me I need to quite Apple Remote Desktop.
Because I'm going to modify the computer database.
So I'm going to close that, run add computers again.
Now when I restart Apple Remote Desktop, my
all computers list has a bunch of entries.
And you'll notice, I don't have user names and passwords
for all of them, but I can access their report data.
So I'm going to click on those, run reports.
( Period of silence )
And then there's the reports for all the computers.
( Applause )
>> Alright, thanks.
Okay, let's go back to the slides.
( Period of silence )
Okay, remote administration.
So here we have the send use command
which is a very, very popular command.
Remote desktop lets you execute just about any kind
of UNIX script against a bunch of machines at once
and get the results back from that script.
Setting start up disk lets you set all your machines
up to a net install server or net boot server.
Then there's various power management
features like sleep, wake, restart,
power on if you have the Xserve,
locking and unlocking screens.
As well as being able to log out users and
open files on, or open files and applications.
So I'm actually, Steve Hayman is going to
go ahead and do a demo of send UNIX.
>> So without a doubt, the killer application of
Apple Remote Desktop is this send UNIX command button.
Who's with me on that?
( Applause )
Alright. I thank the engineering team for putting that in.
And PHP, who knew that PHP was for
than just you know iPhone apps?
Isn't that amazing?
( Laughter )
So those of us who come from a command
line background find this very exciting.
You can take a list of computers like this and
execute UNIX commands on them and capture the result.
This has been in ARD for a while.
I just want to show you a couple of simple examples.
I've picked a list of computers.
And we'll run an extremely boring command, date.
I'm just typing in the command name
here and you, if you haven't seen this,
you have the option of running the command as the user who
is logged in or you can even say that user root if you want.
That will run the command as root,
even if nobody is logged in.
Very handy feature.
So we'll run the exciting command, date and all the output
of the date command comes back into this little window here.
( Cheering )
Oh, stop.
( Laughter )
Now there, there are more interesting commands than that.
I wrote a little command a while
ago called big honking text.
>> All right.
>> Yeah.
( Applause )
>> And big honking text will do a variety of things.
One of the things it can do is to take
the output of another command like this.
So this is a command, its not, you can get,
well we're going to make this available to you.
This is already installed in these computers,
so I'm going to run the date command and pipe it
into big honking text and see what happens.
I'm watching all the machines over here.
They're all putting the date up on their screen.
I find this to be incredibly useful
and not only that, incredibly annoying.
Because if there's work going on in the
labs, I can do, I can do this sort of thing.
Big honking text also has a dash H option
which with do an authentic Canada goose honk.
( Goose honk )
( Laughter )
Very handy.
So.
>> (Unclear)
>> That's the Canadian thing, man, it's the Canada Goose.
So there's a lot you can do with that, but.
>> We can go back to the slides for a moment.
>> But there are a couple of limitations.
That sort of requires that all the
machines be actually online right now.
Send UNIX command sends the UNIX command that
you want to execute to all nine of the computers.
It does not use the task server.
So our first though is well what,
what can we do to work around that.
The task servers as you just saw works great with packages.
You can install a package on a computer
that happens to be asleep or even off.
And once your colleagues figure out how to turn the
computer back on, the package will be installed correctly.
Well what if we took a package that didn't actually have
any files in it but it has a post installation script?
That's a feature of packages.
They contain files which you see here.
And they contain, they contain an
optional script called post flight.
And the post flight script will
run after a package is installed.
There's other, there's other scripts you can put
in the package, a post install and a post upgrade.
The advantage of post flight is it runs every time,
even if you've installed the package 17 times in a row.
So what would happen if we make, were to make a
package that didn't actually have any files in it
but had one of these post, post flight scripts.
We could use the task server and this
as a way to execute UNIX commands
on a whole bunch of machines, even those that are down.
And there's a lot of sophisticated system admin
things you might want to do only to find out that one
or two of the machines in your lab were down.
Now you can package up those commands
in a package like this.
I'm going to show you one little idea here.
If you can go back to the demo
machine here for a sec please.
( Period of silence )
I'm also nothing if not a big Automator fan.
And I have a little workflow I want to show you here.
Create a payload free package.
This is a simple combination of existing Automator
actions that starts out by making an empty folder,
make temp, might not even know about that one.
Makes an empty folder.
And then it passes that folder to
the existing create package action
which is something that comes with Automator.
That makes a package out of the previous files
and folders of which there are none in this case.
And that passes the path of the package to the next action.
So this next action is a little bit of shell script
that takes the package from the previous action
and adds one of these post flight scripts to it.
I wrote a little template post flight scripts.
So this sticks a post flight script in the package.
And then at the very end, it actually
opens the package, that line there,
in your text editor so you can change something on it.
So if we actually run this here,
it's going to ask me to create package.
I'll call this PFP5 and you have all these
options here that you don't need to set.
But it's a nice feature of Automator
in that it will, if you like,
display one of these actions live when the workflow runs.
We'll hit continue.
That's actually building the package here.
It's opening up this post flight
script that it added for me.
It's jumping up and down, I'll make it go away in a second.
And I get to type my exciting command here.
How about SC util dash dash get computer name.
We'll type that into big honking text dash h dash.
You can all think of much more
exciting scripts than this one I'm sure.
Maybe you want to make a folder or remove
something or change the permissions on a file.
If I save that, that's now saved this package on
my desktop with that script right there in it.
Yeah I put that in alright, so yeah.
So we've now got a package that we
can install on a bunch of machines.
Now you know I have found, I'm just a field
guy, but I have found in preparing this session
with these fine ARD engineering team that they are able
to implement my secret wishes without,
just by the pure power of thought.
It's incredible.
We were practicing this yesterday and I said, I
said to Mark, wouldn't it be cool if you could,
you know having selected a list of
computer, just drag a package on them.
That would be a great feature you
should add in the next release.
And Mark said, you know did it
occur to you to actually try that?
And he.
( Laughter )
And he thought hard for a second and I dragged
it and I dropped it and it takes a moment here,
but that will open up the package install action.
I have my emergency back up joke I may
have to go into here for a second here.
( Applause )
So, yeah, I was telling you before that there's a
Canadian and an Iranian went to a German restaurant.
( Laughter )
And the Canadian guy says to the
Iranian guy, What are you having?
And the Iranian, oh its back, sorry.
( Laughter )
so this is when I'll take that package and actually
install it and run it on all of those computers
and hopefully it will display all
of their, display the host names.
We'll watch all of them here.
There they go and they all honked.
And because that's a package, I won't do it here,
but that would work with the task server as well.
It would wait if machines were off until they
came back and then execute those commands.
I think you might find this a very
handy addition to your bag of tricks.
We're packaging this Automator, workflow
and big honking text up and it will all be
on the remote desktop site as, as Mark said earlier.
So could we.
( Applause )
Could we go back to the slides for a moment?
Oh it's you, that's right.
We have about one slide for you to do right now, don't we.
Timed this perfectly.
This is brilliant.
Watch this.
Watch how smooth this is.
>> Remote assistance, the next
feature set of remote desktop.
We've got observe and control, very popular feature,
remote observe which you saw Steve kind of demo there,
also being about to share your screen now
is very good in the educational scenario.
Guest access if you, so if someone doesn't want
you to just be able to control their screen,
you can request access to control their screen.
We've got text messaging, there's a widget also that
you can have for just sort of quick viewing a machine.
With drag and drop file copy in the
control window as well as being able
to send the contents of the clipboard back and forth.
And also curtain mode.
If you need to control a machine but you don't want someone
whose passing by to see what's going on on that machine
or be able to use the keyboard and interfere in what it
is you're trying to do, that'll just bring a lock up on
that screen so you can go about
your business and get things done.
So back over to Steve.
>> All right, here's the exciting demo,
can we have the demo machine please here.
The exciting demo of control screen.
Well, you pick a computer and you go control.
Okay?
( Applause )
( Laughter )
>> Ta da!
>> Well right, who cares?
But if I could go back to the slides for a
moment, I'll tell you why we care about that.
The way that control works is it talks to
a specific TCP port on the remote computer.
Port, who knows?
Who can tell me the port?
5900, that's right.
Now, that does not work in a lot of situations.
I like to help my father out from time to time.
My father is a great guy, retired civil engineer.
Dad and I often have a discussion about
the different between a file and a folder.
This is where we are right now.
Actually Dad, Dad actually has a good point.
He, in his business, the thing that you put
into a filing cabinet with pieces of paper
in it, each of those is called a file, right?
You put those in a filing cabinet.
And yet we come over here and we call them folders.
I don't know if we can fix this here right now, but
I'm thinking about my Dad right at the moment, so.
I'd like to help Dad with his computer.
Here's the problem.
Dad's got some router that he bought who
knows where, configured who knows how
It happens to work.
How he got it going, I don't know.
And I would like to control his
computer from time to time to help Dad.
This is me over here, Dad over there.
And the first problem is Dad is 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 2.
In the TCP world, that is an unroutable address.
It's a network address translation, is a great feature,
but it means you can't get directly
to that address from the outside.
So if I were to naively try to observe
the computer at 10 dot 0 dot 0 dot 2,
those packets really have no where
to go, they're unroutable.
The classic solution to this is to try to figure
out Dad's, the address of Dad's mystery router.
I don't know if I could get Dad to tell me that piece of
information or the brand of the router or the location
of the router, where he bought the router.
I'm not sure I can get any of this
information out of my Dad.
And even if I could, trying to observe
port 5900 on that router is not going to work
because it's not the router itself is not
running the Apple Remote Desktop client.
Now the standard solution to this is to
figure out port forwarding on the route.
We've all done this for our parents.
This is the parental control feature of MAC OS X.
( Applause )
So if you could, if you could some how talk Dad through
configuring his mystery router to forward port 5900
from the router to his computer, I would be very impressed.
But then you could observe port 5900 on Dad's mystery router
and if of course you would be talking to Dad's computer.
I bet you a lot of people have done this right?
This is a fairly common thing.
Honestly though, I think that all though this
would work, the chance of talking someone
through this on the phone is fairly slim.
And eventually, you just get to the
point and say all right, I'm coming over.
I will be there in a couple hours, just hang on.
But what if you could do this?
Let's assume you know what you are doing.
( Laughter )
Let's assume for instance that you are sophisticated
enough to locate the power button on an iMac.
I have a little trouble with that, but.
And let's supposed you have SSH turned
on on your computer, on your computer.
You have inbound remote log in turned on.
And let's suppose you have their public IP address
or you have your own mystery router
configured to port 22 back here on the machine.
A lot of us have that right?
We want to be able to do a SSH back to our home computers.
If, and this is a big if, if you could
do a clever port forwarding thing,
you can take advantage of a little known feature of
ARD in that you can observe not just an IP address
but a combination of an IP address and a port.
If you add local host on your computer,
to the computer list in ARD.
You can actually edit where it says 127 dot 0
dot 0 dot 1 and tack on a port number at the end.
Let's just say for the sake of argument you're
going to set it up so that ARD will have port 5800
of your local computer on its computer list.
If you could get you do to do this.
okay, Dad type this.
( Laughter )
I'm going to set up an account for Dad up on my computer.
I'm going to tell him the password.
There are a lot of ifs here.
This does not require me to know
anything about the password.
Oh this, sorry.
This is the IP configuration on Dad's
computer, we're starting on Dad's computer
and we're using features of SSH where it can tunnel ports.
It can take a port on one computer and encrypt it
via SSH and attach it to a port on another computer.
With a command like this, you can set up a pipeline between
the ARD port on Dad's computer through the mystery router
and the inter web to port 5800 on your computer.
5800 is just a number that we made up and then
if you said observe 5800 on your local computer,
it will be tunneled through net properly.
You have to stare at the SSH command for a long time before
you figure out whether you've got it in the right order
or not, but there's a little syntax for saying
a port here or a port there, hook them together,
all encrypted nicely over the SSH protocol.
I think I am going to have a hard time talking Dad though
locating terminal application let alone typing SSH.
But it would work.
I'm going to suggest if you want to try this,
you might wrap a little script around it.
Dad trust me, click on this.
Let's assume that the problem is
not that his mail is not working.
But in, maybe we send Dad a script.
Dad, if you were to click on this,
here's a little AppleScript
that would tell the terminal program
to run that SSH command in a window.
Its using do script, which is a verb you
can send to terminal in AppleScript.
Note that this is different from do shell script.
Do script tells terminal to go
and run something in a window.
Do shell script does things in the background.
But we want this to hang around,
so we say do script like that.
That would pop up a terminal window and Dad
can fill in some passwords and it might work.
There's still a lot you would have to
set up to get this to actually work.
You would have to have ARD configured.
We would have to configure the SSH.
I want to to point out scripting solves all
problems in the world and the programs
which are scriptable are inherently better
than programs than are not scriptable.
( Applause )
And that you could, you could write a
script, and when say you, I don't mean me.
You could write a script that would solve this.
Actually when I say you, I mean Nathan Fischer.
If you look on the archives of the Remote Desktop mailing
list from last month, Nathan has put together a nice package
of scripts that automate this all for you.
If you go to lists dot apple dot com,
even if you're not on the remote desktop.
But you should probably should be.
Who's on the remote desktop list?
Nathan Fischer are you in the audience?
Oh that's too bad.
I had a big prize here for him.
That's a shame.
But Nathan's written a lovely package that you can
configure with the IP address and it gives you a thing
to tell your Dad and run and hooks
up the ports and everything.
I'd encourage him to go find, I did not
want to give out his address here today,
but go find that posting on the list and drop him a note.
Take a look at his script or feel free to write your own.
There are plenty of other variations
of this sort of thing lurking around.
Alright, I'm going to toss it back to Mark.
>> Okay, thank you.
( Applause )
Okay, second to last feature area
is automation for remote desktop.
And here we have a some what rich AppleScript
dictionary for being able to various tasks.
You've seen Steve use some of that stuff.
You seen Doug use some of that stuff.
Automator actions as well, task templates, so that you can
preconfigure a set of arguments for a task and save that,
so when you select a set of machines you can
apply that task template to that set of machines
and get your argument set up real very quickly
It's very especially useful for a send UNIX and also
for certain package installations and file copies
where you've got a specific set of
locations where you want things to go.
Last thing is scheduling itself.
Remote desktop allows you to schedule most of the commands.
And we've seen lots of Automator demos already.
And we're going to see one more and then.
( Laughter )
>> We have the demo machine over here.
>> You may have noticed that ARD, pardon me, ARD
includes a whole pile of Automator actions here.
I don't know how many of you have ever used this, so just
bear with me if I give you a brief example of the basics.
One, one, could do this sort of thing.
Let me just create a folder on my desktop, drop here
and I could build a little workflow in Automator
that says get the selected finder items and then
use one of the existing remote desktop actions.
Copy items to computer list and I could
say I want to copy to my WWDC list.
And then after the copy is complete,
we would like to open the items.
And if you were to save this, it would
just be a workflow that anyone could run.
A nice feature of Automator is
you can save things as plug ins.
I can save I want to save this as
let's say a folder actions plug in.
Copy and open.
And if you save something like that as what did I save that?
I didn't mean to do that.
Pardon me, there are several different ways.
I meant to save it as a finder, did I save
that as a finder or folder action figure?
I meant to do this, okay, open seriously.
( Laughter )
This is a finder plug in now which means you can take
things in the finder and you can control click on them
and you get this Automator menu down here that includes
these workflows that you saved to the Automator.
How many people didn't know that?
That's kind of neat, huh?
You can give for instance are they K12 people here?
You can give a teacher in a simpler scheme a folder
where they could drag and drop something and it would go
to all the student's computers and automatically open.
They could even drag and drop the URL
out of Safari and drop it in there
and suddenly every student's computer would
open the same page they're looking at.
This is pretty powerful and I think
honestly under used technique.
But those are.
I'm not going to do it because it is just
going to make all the machine honk again.
I'm getting a little tired of that.
( Laughter )
But that's one.
Here's another one though.
I wrote this one.
This one that was kinda missing from the kit.
Install packages on computers.
So this is the same general idea of copying things over
except it will optionally install things if you like,
via the task server so I can save this same
workflow and say I want to copy to that, that list.
I want to run this from the task server.
I'll save this again.
Wow, holy mackerel.
( Period of silence )
Install package via task server.
And another feature of this is that if you like and
you click this option thing here, there's a secret box,
show action when run that many Automator actions have.
Good idea to check that.
Because if you, if you're finished with this workflow
now, and I've saved it as install package via task server.
I can do the same kind of thing.
I can click on something, Automator,
install package via task server.
And I think I forgot to do what I said, whoa!
There it goes.
But I think I forgot to do what I was talking about.
Just a minute.
Show action when run, yeah.
Let's try that again.
Sorry. Did I not save?
That'd be just like me not to save.
Install, darn it.
One more time here.
Show action when run.
Automator installed, I tend to build up a lot of
these because I never get them right in the first try.
This little piece of the UI will pop up,
so you got that little mini application
where people can choose what action they want to do
whether they want to do it via the task server and so on.
And Automator will take over and go install it.
I'd like to point out that this one actually remembers
the selected computers that you chose in the workflow,
which I think a couple of the others maybe don't.
We're going to, we're going to work on that.
So I think you'll find all these things a great
way to extend the capabilities of Automator to,
to make your life a little bit simpler by
building workflows for these common things.
And in a lot of cases, given the number of users.
( Period of silence )
>> Back to you now.
>> All right, should I actually install it?
You want to hear one more honk, here we go.
>> Oh, we don't have time, we don't have time.
( Laughter )
We've only got 31 minutes left1,
we don't have time to do that.
(Unclear) All right, can we have the slides?
Hurry, hurry the slides, hurry.
( Applause )
>> Okay, so the following area I want to
talk about is set up of the remote desktop.
And I guess have to tie something together here.
And labels so you can select machines
and apply different labels to them
and you can create smart lists
based on those labels as well.
You can create smart lists based on a variety of criteria.
You can create user defined list views.
So this is, you can add various criteria to your list.
You have a, you're looking at a computer list, you
got a set of standard columns that are in there,
but you can also customize that as well and add
other criteria that aren't in there originally.
You can create groups to help organize your sidebar area.
To put various save tasks in there
or schemes that you create.
There's also task history windows that you
can view, things that have gone on before.
There's a user mode for remote desktop so you
can run remote desktop in an unprivileged account
and you can reduce the set of commands that they're
allowed to access, that the user is allowed to access.
There's scanners for finding machines as I mentioned
before, we added a bon jour scanner to 3 point 1 update.
You've got directory based authentication so you set
a, a key on the client machines and then they'll point,
then they can use whatever directory server the
client is bound to and you can authenticate that way.
And then task lists as well.
( Period of silence )
So Doug's going to do a quick demo of just basically
creating a list and adding machines to it.
A very common task in remote desktop.
>> Alright, so here's my scanner with all my machines in it.
>> I think we're actually on the wrong demo machine.
If we could switch to the second demo machine.
>> Did I just flip this?
>> Okay. Great.
( Period of silence )
>> Right, so I think that I want to control Steve's
computer and mess it up before he has a demo.
So I'm going to add that to my all computers list.
Oh I don't know its name, never mind.
( Period of silence )
Oh wait, I remember what I was going to do.
>> You probably want to create a list.
>> So here's the computers I want.
I can make a list called my list.
And you can see there they are.
That's it.
>> Okay.
>> Great.
>> So.
( Laughter )
Real simple.
This is the set up for what's coming up next.
So if we can go back to the slides.
>> Wait. Someone's been in my machine.
( Background noise )
>> So this is fine, you create your list, but let's say
again you've got a large organization and you've got a lot
of people who are all managing the same set of machines.
And you're each going through the effort of creating
these lists and adding machines to them and someone,
maybe whose a little bit more on top of it, someone else
is keeping that list up to date a little bit better.
And currently the way that you would you know
share this information if someone were to share it
from a remote desktop is to use the export list command and
you've have to email the results of that to someone else
or you put it up on a file server
and that person would take it down.
And then import that list.
But the problem is that there's no credentials.
So its fine if you're using directory based, you
can select all those machines, do a multi get info,
add in your directory based authentication.
But if you're, if you're using local
accounts, it's a little bit more of a hassle.
Plus if you didn't necessarily want to share
that user name and password with someone else,
you'd rather that credential information just
gets shared over that so they have access
but they don't necessarily have the user name and password.
So how are we going to solve this?
we're going to use the same application that we saw earlier
for the task progress, the remote desktop assistant,
and its got a second tab if any of you
didn't notice that before for sharing lists.
And now what you can do is from, you could run this
application on each of your other administrator machines,
and you can configure it to use a machine which
we're just going to call a list sharing machine.
It doesn't have to be running remote desktop software.
It can just be a machine that you've
got set up in a closet some
where that's always on that you want to use for this purpose.
And what you're going to do is select, run this
application, you know set up an SSH connection to your,
so you're going to register it to your list sharing machine.
Then you're going to select the list that you want to share.
And then you publish those lists.
And then conversely, you're also going to see all the
lists that were published by other administrators
and you can select those and sync them to your
remote desktop app so the next time you write it,
you're going to have a fresh copy
of those lists and the clients
and most importantly the credentials for those clients.
So let's take a brief look at how we get this thing set up.
So on each of our machines running remote desktop dot app,
we're going to run this little, um, we're going to run the app
and within it I believe there's the
registration aspect of it, right,
for getting it connected up to the, to list server.
So if you're, in this example you see that
we type in the list server address on each
of these machines and that gets it registered.
And then each of these admins selects which lists it
is that they want to share and then they publish those.
So Doug is going to do a demo of how we do list sharing.
>> Right. Alright, I'm going to switch back
over to the remote desktop assistant.
First thing you have to do is configure the list
repository which I've already done, just like Mark showed.
( Period of silence )
Gathers the shared list and then when
I flip over to the list sharing tab,
I already published some lists
from my Tokyo and London machines.
And if I go through here, I can see the different
computers down below that are in those lists.
So before I do that though, I'm going to publish my lists.
So I have this one called delegation servers.
I publish it and at that point it
would be available to either London,
Tokyo or anybody else who's participating in my sharing.
So I'm going to switch back over to
remote desktop real quickly.
And just to look at my all computers list, I got
three computers that I have configured right now.
I have one with delegation servers, one with my list.
I'm going to go back to remote desktop and
I think human resources is the one I want.
So there's two unpronounceable names down there.
And I'm going to sync up on that.
Right, it's going to tell me remote desktop is
running, just like the aggregator demo earlier.
It can't be running at the same time when it does the sync.
So I'm going to turn off remote desktop.
Sync again.
Now I want to go back to remote desktop.
I have the human resources list
that has those two computers in it
that you noticed didn't appear
before in my all computers list.
And I have the credentials, I can
observe them and do whatever I need to.
( Applause )
>> Okay let's go back to the slides.
( Period of silence )
Doug and another member of our team, Brian worked very hard
on those applications, so I just want to say thanks a lot
of that hard work and they put all
that together, very, very quickly.
( Applause )
So just in closing, we've got the remote desktop 3
point 2 updates coming out when Leopard comes out.
And also the client itself is going to
be, is going to come with Leopard.
So we've shown you how remote desktop can be extended to
provide some of the functionality that you've requested.
We've gotten a lot of feedback and
we're keeping all this stuff in mind.
And what you've seen today is, is a clear
indication of the things that we're aware of
and that you know we're going to focus on in the future.
As I said, also, these applications, all
the scripts, everything you've seen today,
we're going to make available, hopefully very soon.
You're going to be able to find it linking from this URL.
We don't know exactly where it's
going to live, but they'll be up there.
All the source code will be there and
we just kinda showed you a brief bit
of what you can do in terms of extending the product.
When you take a look at the source code,
you're probably going to be able to figure
out some other interesting stuff you can do.
And we're also going to be in the IT lab this afternoon
at 330 and we're going to be able answer more questions
and maybe even be able to demo some
of this stuff a little bit more.
>> Wait a minute, I forgot something.
Wait, give me this machine again.
Wait, you know.
>> Sorry, go back to Steve.
>> Don't we usually do some completely
pointless and stupid script in this session?
>> Yeah, yeah I guess so.
( Applause )
>> That makes like all the drive
or the open and doing the wave
or the marching band comes out on the iMax or something.
>> Yeah.
>> Do we have time?
Do we have time.
>> Yeah, we got time.
( Laughter )
>> I, you know.
( Period of silence )
I'm from Canada.
I'm from Ontario in fact.
I'm from southern Ontario.
And southern Ontario is home to the world's
greatest classical Shakespeare Company,
the Stratford Shakespearean festival.
( Applause )
And, well we have a few actors in the crowd here.
The, and they put on a, every year they
put on all your Shakespeare classics.
They put on your Macbeth, they put on your
Hamlet, they put on your Cats and your Oklahoma
and all the other good Shakespearean numbers.
And.
( Laughter )
I used to get dragged to those
things when I was a kid, you know.
You're in grade seven and you're studying
you know the King Lear or something.
So you go to the play and watch the guy getting his eyes
gauged out and try to follow along in your little book.
But computers are kinda cool.
I came across this website that actually has the
complete works of Shakespeare, but marked up in XML.
And here, for instance, here's, here's Macbeth in XML.
And you can see it's all broken out
into parts and speeches and so on.
I think he wrote it this way.
I'm not sure.
( Laughter )
So when I, when I see something like that and I realize I
got a rack of computers of here, and I, they're scriptable.
What if we had a little script that lets
you pick a play off the list, and I'm going to,
oop, sound, sound on this machine please.
( Laughter )
What if you could pick a, pick a play off
the list and then have AppleScript look
at all the parts and assign to different computers.
( Laughter )
>> The Apple remote desktop playhouse presents, the
Tragedy of Macbeth, Act 1, Scene 1, a desert place,
thunder and lighting, enter three witches.
>> Here they come, the witches.
>> When shall we three meet again in thunder?
(Unclear)
>> That will be that.
>> Zarvox, zarvox is third witch,
the two and the four are performance.
Through says first witch.
Vicki is the second witch.
Zarvox is the third witch.
>> Come gray mocking.
>> There's only about another 90 minutes of this.
( Laughter )
>> (Unclear)
( Applause )
>> Oh, wait, hang on.
Scene two, wait, wait.
>> Enter Duncan, Malcolm.
>> Here comes some more guys.
>> Lennox.
>> I had to watch this in grade 10.
You should too.
>> Meeting a bleed Sergeant.
( Laughter )
>> Oh Agnes is Duncan.
She's great.
>> He can report and seen that by his.
>> All right, all right, enough already.
All right, let's leave that running.
>> You know, I think we, we something
for the music department last year,
I wanted to do something for the
English department this year.
So.
>> All right.
>> This would be a marvelous opportunity
for some Q and A, so.
( Applause )